but one of the biggest problems that
parents want into is they say like okay
no baby parameter and then read this
book and what I don't think anyone in
that relationship understands that even
I don't really understand it because I
was just theoretical is that they don't
have the capacity to actually enjoy that
not in the way that we do right so as a
parent you have to understand that when
you give them like some kind of
alternative like they're not going to
have the capacity to enjoyment to enjoy
it and what you really have to do is
sort of like pull them away from games
in a pretty significant manner to get
them to sort of have like a normal
healthy kind of dopamine kind of brain
now the good news is that it's not like
you have to get them to stop all gaming
I think it's enough to engage them in a
way that they find enjoyable like
there's you can do something right so
you can you know some people I'll tell
them to do things like go whitewater
rafting or like a vacation so whitewater
rafting is a really like tired rather
than kind of thing it's a little bit
dangerous to that be careful but it's
like I've never met a game or a strong
whitewater rafting and didn't absolutely
like it's really engaging it's also
helped me it's something that you can do
as a family so there are things that you
can do to sort of help yourself along
and then when it comes to reading books
like you know I think books can be
bought and you just have to give them
time and space and let their brain sort
of like get used to that again and then
you can kind of think about alternative
activities but I think the dopamine
circuit is like just one of them and
then there are all these other circuits
like there's this sort of sense of
identity there's the sense of there's
something a lot that I call the triumph
circuit which is not real circuits but
it's like just this basic capacity that
human beings like triumph and taya is
requires adversity so when you're
thinking about like you know how that
help your kid do something you have to
give them a task that is hard but
engaging